---
layout: post
title: "Remedy: Network-aware steady state VM management for data centers"
date: "2012-05-21"
tags: "VM-Migration, VM-Placement, QoS, Traffic-Engineering"
comments: true
permalink: 2012/05/remedy
download: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/76fa/329c0d88fb812fdbcd7e58784149b6bc0d82.pdf
authors:
- Vijay Mann
- Akanksha Gupta
- Partha Dutta
- Anilkumar Vishnoi
- Parantapa Bhattacharya
- Rishabh Poddar
- Aakash Iyer
type: Research Paper
conference: "IFIP Networking 2012"
---

Steady state VM management in data centers should be network-aware so that VM migrations do not degrade network
performance of other flows in the network, and if required, a VM migration can be intelligently orchestrated to
decongest a network hotspot. Recent research in network-aware management of VMs has focused mainly on an optimal
network-aware initial placement of VMs and has largely ignored steady state management.

In this context, we present the design and implementation of Remedy. Remedy ranks target hosts for a VM migration based on the associated cost
of migration, available bandwidth for migration and the network bandwidth balance achieved by a migration. It models
the cost of migration in terms of additional network traffic generated during migration. We have implemented Remedy
as an OpenFlow controller application that detects the most congested links in the network and migrates a set of VMs
in a network aware manner to decongest these links. Our choice of target hosts ensures that neither the migration
traffic nor the flows that get rerouted as a result of migration cause congestion in any part of the network. We
validate our cost of migration model on a virtual software testbed using real VM migrations. Our simulation results
using real data center traffic data demonstrate that selective network aware VM migrations can help reduce unsatisfied
bandwidth by up to 80-100%.
